## IPFS in GLAM Informal Call
Tuesday 23 May 2017, 10-11 AM Pacific / 11-12 AM Mountain / Noon-1 PM Central / 1-2 PM Eastern / 6-7 PM BST / 7-8 PM CEST
---

Video of the Call: https://youtu.be/y2FR_F86Oe4

* *Moderator/Gatekeeper:* Matt Zumwalt
* *Notetaker:*
* *Speaker/Topic:* Enno Meijers on his work with MediaChain

---

#### How to Join the Meeting

To be added.

---

#### Agenda Items:

* Quick Introductions
* Speaker - Enno
* Logistics for ongoing calls
* Announcements or Opportunities for Collaboration

---


### Attendees
* @flyingzumwalt: Protocol Labs
* @mishmosh: Protocol Labs
* Brendan O'Brien: Data Rescue Project - Environmental Data & Governance Initiative
* Christina Harlow: Repository & Data at Stanford
* Ed Silverton: Universal Viewer lead, concentrating on UV 3D and IPFS
* Enno Meijers:
    * Funded to make it easier for Netherlands citizens to access cultural heritage collections

## Notes

### Mediachain (Enno Meijers)
Focuses on making information more useable 
- Chose linked data because content coming from many different kinds of orgs
- Don't want to build yet another big aggregator (europeana, DPLA, etc)
- Interested in IPFS and distributed networking to explore different approach
- Conclusion: it's a bit premature to start using this
	- starting by building a registry that points to where the data can be found
	- giving directions to relevant info in verious service portals
	- looked into options for using IPFS with linked data
	- worked with mediachain for ~3 months in 2016
	- did this part of a blockchain pilot project run by Dutch Government
		- this blockchain project is exploring about 30 different use cases
		- brought up IPFS. nobody really knew what it was
		- it ws interesting to have a go with mediachain

[Slides: Report on Mediachain Pilot for Dutch Heritage Network]( https://github.com/netwerk-digitaal-erfgoed/general-documentation/blob/master/20170512%20report%20on%20mediachain%20pilot%20Dutch%20Heritage%20Network.pdf) (PDF)

Focuses:
- visibility
- accessibility 
- preservation

"Quite a hassle to set up the right way"

Results:
- Sharing of data is limited (copying & merging only)
- Discovery is limited

Capabilities, esp. with linked data, limited
Blockstack was interesting

Observations:
- Mediachain still immature. No further development planned due to Spotify acquisition.
- Docs out of date or overpromised
- Slack channel support was excellent, though
- Developers enthusiastic about this use case
- MC had very pragmatic approach

Conclusions:
- Linked Data support is weak
- Real potential of IPFS can't be evaluated through this pilot due to limited IPFS imp in MediaChain
- Chose more traditional way of getting Linked Data setup working

Discussion:
- Ed Silverton also tried MC. Got a node running, not sure what to do with it. Considered merging data. Also concerned about lack of IPFS compatibility. MC plan was for IPLD to link data/blogs, but stalled.
- What's the key difference between blockchain and CRDT? 

- Mediachain was a way to find my stuff on IPFS, otherwise I'd have to remember my hash. Discoverability.

Possible future topics:
- Old Dominion University team to present work with Interplantary Wayback
- Nicola for IPLD overview
