## IPFS in GLAM Informal Call
Tuesday 2 May 2017, 10-11 AM Pacific / 11-12 AM Mountain / Noon-1 PM Central / 1-2 PM Eastern / 6-7 PM BST / 7-8 PM CEST
---

Link to join the video call: https://zoom.us/j/779-351-365

[Hackpad for live Agenda and Notes](https://hackmd.io/CwIwrAHApgTFBsBaeECMBDRoIAZHvgHYREwBjQgEwE504QAzVEIA)

* *Moderator/Gatekeeper:* n/a
* *Notetaker:* All
* *Speaker/Topic:* Ed Silverton (@edsilv) demo IIIF "Level 0" image tiles loading over IPFS. also (if time) the workflow Gitbook for creating 3D models.

---
#### Attendees

- Enno Meijers (@ennomeijers) - National Library of the Netherlands; metadata, linked data, cultural heritage
- Ed Silverton (@edsilv)
- Shaun - Princeton University
- Matt Zumwalt (@flyingzumwalt) - Protocol Labs, IPFS program manager
- Michelle Lee (@mishmosh) - Protocol Labs, IPFS product & user focus
- Christina (had to leave early for work conflict) - Stanford University Libraries. authority datasets. data ops, e.g. versioning.

#### Agenda Items:

* Quick Introductions / Discussion of Interest(s)
* Speaker
* Logistics for ongoing calls
  * Next call - try to plan to work with Enno’s calendar (before his vacation 5/25) so he can talk about his work with MediaChain
Announcements or Opportunities for Collaboration
* Announcements or Opportunities for Collaboration
  * Outlining questions, areas for work with little-a authorities, IPFS, IPLD, and library dataflows (catalog to index, catalog to digital repository, digital repository to exhibition software, etc.): Christina & Shaun interested in pursuing this

---

### Notes

How should we spend our time?
- Demos, mostly
- Shaun interested in understanding applications & data models better, but open to learning through demos
- Data ops
- Versioning has lots of potential

Enno experimented with uploading & connecting linked data to Mediachain stack. Disappointed with capabilities; it basically puts a wrapper around it.

IIIF demo by Ed Silverton
- Question: able to get the URL for the Google Doc Ed started with?
- universalviewer.io, https://mastodon.social
- Showed a 3D model of vertebrae, both data and viewer on from IPFS. 3D files are huge, lots of potential efficiencies
- Would like to experiment with js-ipfs
- How the decentralized tiles got generated: https://gist.github.com/edsilv/97759a93cb7c5f0fedb8178fee5e1dd3
- “ipfs acts like a giant cache”

Annotation workflow
- Paper on LOD and IPFS: “Sharing Linked Open Data over Peer-to-Peer Distributed File Systems: The Case of IPFS” - Miguel-Ángel Sicilia, Salvador Sánchez- Alonso, Elena García Barriocanal - MTSR2016

## Action Items

Schedule next call for Enno to walk through his experiences with Mediachain (need to move the date to fit with his calendar/upcoming vacation)
Future topics:
Other protocols
IPLD / Linked Data
IPFS cluster
(maybe) js-IPFS
